Docs update 3 (#14530)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/concepts/sui-move-concepts/patterns.mdx

---
title: Patterns
description: Move coding patterns, or techniques, solve logic problems you encounter when developing Move packages for the Sui blockchain. These include capabilities, witness and transferrable witness, hot potato, and ID pointer. 
---

Topics in this section introduce Move coding patterns that solve various logic needs in your package development. 

## Capabilities

A capability is a pattern that allows authorizing actions with an object. See [Capabilities](./patterns/capabilities.mdx) for an example of this pattern.

## Witness and transferrable witness

> A witness is a pattern you use to confirm the ownership of a type. A one-time witness (OTW) is a special instance of a type created in the module initializer and guaranteed to be unique with only one instance. See the following topics for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A witness is a type with `drop` that proves that its owner was present at the time of some privileged operation, for example having access to the one-time witness (OTW) for a module proves that the code is being run at the time the module was first published. See the following topics for details.
```

- [Witness](./patterns/witness)
- [Transferrable Witness](./patterns/transferrable-witness)

## Hot potato

A hot potato is a struct that has no capabilities, therefore you can only pack and unpack it in its module.

- [Hot Potato](./patterns/hot-potato)

## ID pointer

> ID pointer is a technique that separates the main data (an object) and its accessors/capabilities by linking the latter to the original.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Objects can refer to each other by using their IDs as pointers.  For example a capability that guards access to another object may store that object's `ID` to perform an authorization check.
```
